The following videos showing you the integration between Jeana's 3 and NPM are based on this how to
guide which you can get from the below links.
This may be useful to you after you've attended the training.
So if you want to set up an PM and Jean history refer back to the sky ad which contains a lot of information
including how to install both genius 3 and NPM how to create the initial topology the commands used
on the routers including commands such as setting up SMP setting up the IP addresses and configuring
E.I. GOP.
I'll also include the commands on the routers on the relevant video in this training but you may find
the integration Guide to be of benefit to you for reference later in the next few videos.
I'm going to show you how to build a topology within Jeana's 3 that consists of three routers connected
via serial interfaces.
These are going to be the interfaces monitored by network performance monitor the three Cisco routers
are connected to a switch which in turn is connected to NPM.
This is our out-of-band network management subnet.
You don't need a dedicated network for management but in this example that's the way we going to configure
it.
How ingenius three there are multiple ways to setup your Cisco routers.
You can either run Cisco Iowa's routers directly within Windows using what's called the local server
or you can use a virtual box PMS or a VM where volume's it's up to you which method to use.
The recommendation is that if you are only going to have Cisco routers and other basic devices such
as the built in Ethernet switches Engine 3 you can run jenius three locally on your local Windows PC
or Mac.
However if you want to run more complex typologies using Iowa layer 2 or other more complex setups then
you're going to want to use the genius three VM.
Please refer to the genius 3 installation videos for more detail on how to set up and integrate Jeana's
three.
So in this example I have a Windows 7 Professional virtual machine running within a VM workstation.
I've allocated 4 gig of ram to the 64 bit operating system and I've allocated to cause so on the settings
of a VM workstation you can see that 4 Gig of RAM has been allocated at the moment only one process
being allocated.
Now some recommendations from solar winds.
You can run NPM on Windows 7 Windows 8 dot 1 and Windows 10.
It suggested that you use two calls and 4 gigs of ram as the bare minimum.
It is better however to use 8 gig of RAM and for cause.
But as a bare minimum used to cores and 4 gigs of RAM.
So in this example I'm going to shut down my virtual machine and I'm going to increase the amount of
RAM and you so that it's a lot quicker when I do the demonstrations.
Now that's obviously dependent on what you have available on your PC.
But I'll set it to use for a cause and 8 gig of RAM and I'll power on the virtual machine again.
Now something I always do and this is up to you but I always create snapshots of my virtual machines
in case something goes wrong.
So I've created a snapshot with for example a new install of Windows 7 with chrome installed and that's
where I am at the moment.
Virtual Machine is saying that I need to restart so that the.
So what I'm simply doing here is getting Windows 7 ready so that I can install NPM.
You may also want to download Windows 2000 and 12 so as an example you can download a VHDL file and
then import that into virtual box if you want to run in PM on Windows Server 2012.